Add SELinux docs (#3237)
rancher/docs: content/rancher/v2.5/en/security/selinux/_index.md

---
title: SELinux RPM
weight: 4
---

_Available as of v2.5.8_

[Security-Enhanced Linux (SELinux)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security-Enhanced_Linux) is a security enhancement to Linux.

Developed by Red Hat, it is an implementation of mandatory access controls (MAC) on Linux. Mandatory access controls allow an administrator of a system to define how applications and users can access different resources such as files, devices, networks and inter-process communication. SELinux also enhances security by making an OS restrictive by default. 

After being historically used by government agencies, SELinux is now industry standard and is enabled by default on CentOS 7 and 8.

> 

Reviewer: May want to add how to verify the status of SELinux on your host with either getenforce or sestatus here as a quick verification check.

Reviewer 2: +1

---
title: SELinux RPM
weight: 4
---

_Available as of v2.5.8_

[Security-Enhanced Linux (SELinux)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security-Enhanced_Linux) is a security enhancement to Linux.

Developed by Red Hat, it is an implementation of mandatory access controls (MAC) on Linux. Mandatory access controls allow an administrator of a system to define how applications and users can access different resources such as files, devices, networks and inter-process communication. SELinux also enhances security by making an OS restrictive by default. 

After being historically used by government agencies, SELinux is now industry standard and is enabled by default on CentOS 7 and 8.

> We provide two RPMs (Red Hat package managers) that enable Rancher products to function properly on SELinux-enforcing hosts: `rancher-selinux` and `rke2-selinux`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We provide two RPMs (Red Hat packages) that enable Rancher products to function properly on SELinux-enforcing hosts: `rancher-selinux` and `rke2-selinux`.
```

RPM does stand for Red Hat Package Manager but an RPM is a package, not the package manager. It might be better not to expand the acronym at all.

- [rancher-selinux](#rancher-selinux)
- [rke2-selinux](#rke2-selinux)
- [Installing the rancher-selinux RPM](#installing-the-rancher-selinux-rpm)
- [Configuring the Logging Application to Work with SELinux](#configuring-the-logging-application-to-work-with-selinux)

# rancher-selinux

To allow Rancher to work with SELinux, some functionality has to be manually enabled for the SELinux nodes. To help with that, Rancher provides a SELinux RPM. 

> This RPM only contains policies for the [rancher-logging application,](https://github.com/rancher/charts/tree/dev-v2.5/charts/rancher-logging) but this is where additional policies for more Rancher feature applications will be added in the future. The logging application was tested

Reviewer 3: >  but this is where additional policies for more Rancher feature applications will be added in the future.

This was a note aimed toward developers and support, I don't think it needs to be included here.

Author: updated

The `rancher-selinux` GitHub repository is [here.](https://github.com/rancher/rancher-selinux)

# rke2-selinux

rke2-selinux provides policies for RKE2. It is installed automatically when the RKE2 installer script detects that it is running on an RPM-based distro.

The `rke2-selinux` GitHub repository is [here.](https://github.com/rancher/rke2-selinux)

For more information about installing RKE2 on SELinux-enabled hosts, see the [RKE2 documentation.](https://docs.rke2.io/install/methods/#rpm)

# Installing the rancher-selinux RPM

> **Requirements:** The rancher-selinux RPM was tested with CentOS 7 and 8.

### 1. Set up the yum repo

Set up the yum repo to install `rancher-selinux` directly on all hosts in the cluster.

For CentOS 7, use this URL for the `baseurl`: https://rpm.rancher.io/rancher/production/centos/7/noarch

> For CentOS 8, use this URL for the `baseurl`: https://rpm.rancher.io/rancher/production/centos/8/noarch

Reviewer 3: You could imitate the RKE2 docs and include the full `cat << EOF >` expression for both CentOS 7 and 8, rather than having them substitute the url, e.g.:

---

In order to use the RPM repository, on a CentOS 7 or RHEL 7 system, run the following bash snippet:

```
# cat << EOF > /etc/yum.repos.d/rancher.repo 
[rancher] 
name=Rancher 
baseurl=https://rpm.rancher.io/rancher/production/centos/7/noarch
enabled=1 
gpgcheck=1 
gpgkey=https://rpm.rancher.io/public.key 
EOF
```

In order to use the RPM repository, on a CentOS 8 or RHEL 8 system, run the following bash snippet:

```
# cat << EOF > /etc/yum.repos.d/rancher.repo 
[rancher] 
name=Rancher 
baseurl=https://rpm.rancher.io/rancher/production/centos/8/noarch
enabled=1 
gpgcheck=1 
gpgkey=https://rpm.rancher.io/public.key 
EOF
```

Author: updated

```

> # source /etc/os-release

Reviewer 3: This is not needed

Author: removed

# cat << EOF > /etc/yum.repos.d/rancher.repo 
[rancher] 
name=Rancher 
baseurl=https://rpm.rancher.io/rancher/production/centos/8/noarch # Change if using CentOS 7
enabled=1 
gpgcheck=1 
gpgkey=https://rpm.rancher.io/public.key 
EOF
```

> If you are testing out an unreleased change, you can use the testing channel:

Reviewer 3: Do not include this section, this is for support

Author: removed

```
# cat << EOF > /etc/yum.repos.d/rancher-testing.repo
[rancher]
name=Rancher Testing
baseurl=https://rpm-testing.rancher.io/rancher/testing/centos/8/$VERSION_ID/noarch # Change if using CentOS 7
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://rpm-testing.rancher.io/public.key
EOF
```

### 2. Installing the RPM

Install the RPM:

```
yum -y install rancher-selinux
```

# Configuring the Logging Application to Work with SELinux

> **Requirements:** Logging v2 was tested with SELinux on RHEL/CentOS 7 and 8.

Applications do not automatically work once the `rancher-selinux` RPM is installed on the host. They need to be configured to run in an allowed SELinux container domain provided by the RPM. 

The rancher-logging chart, for example, needs to be configured to be SELinux aware:

```

> helm install logging rancher/rancher-logging --set global.seLinux.enabled=true

Reviewer 3: They would normally be doing this through Rancher, so instead of a `helm install` they should just be advised to change global.seLinux.enabled to true in the values.yaml when installing the chart.

Author: updated
